Alright. In this video, we are gonna be
talking about the Richardson maturity
model and as Martin Fowler likes to say,
its steps towards the glory of a REST. So
kind of a important tagline there.
Making REST all colorful, but once you
understand how some of the stuff works
together, it is pretty slick. It is a
really not a bad tagline that Martin
Fowler came up with. So the Richardson
maturity model or RMM was established by
Leonard Richardson in a 2008 Q-con
presentation. And what happened there,
that little bit of backdrop, Richardson
looked at literally hundreds of RESTful
APIs. And you need to understand, this is
going back roughly a decade at the time
of recording. And REST API's were still
new and evolving and there's really no
formal specification to RESTful APIs.
It's more of a concept. And what
Richardson did is looked over these
API's and came up with a model to
describe the maturity of the RESTful web
services. So there's some very basic
services that we could get to, and then
we move towards the concept of REST. And
this describes the maturity of just how
mature the RESTful models are. So
Richardson came up with a number of
different traits that could use. And I
wanna point out again that, SOAP
services there is a very formal
specification on how to produce SOAP web
services. But unlike the REST, they do
there is no standard definition of what
a REST services is. There is no authority to
say this is the RESTful Web Services
standard. Now, RMM is used to describe the
quality. As in terms of how friendly that
is going to be to the clients, consuming
the REST web service. Now let's take a
look at the different RMM levels that
were established by Richardson. Level
0 is the Swap of POX. Level 1 is
using resources. Level 2 is using HTTP
verbs. And finally, level 3 is where
we bring in hypermedia controls. So I'm
gonna go through and establish what
all these levels are. We'll take a look
at what each one in depth.
Now, we won't look at the core
technologies and how these work together.
So we have a URI, which is a resource
locator. That is a unique URI or URL
for a specific resource on the server.
Then we have HTTP which is a hypertext
Transfer Protocol.
So there's we've looked at the protocol
in depth earlier in the class. And you
remember we have a number of different
methods that we can leverage here. And
then finally, hypermedia, this is a
another thing, where we can provide links
and allow us to get additional
information through linking to different
content. So these different technologies
are very important. How they play
together in terms of a RESTful web
service. Now let's take a look at level
0, The Swamp of POX is coined by
Martin Fowler. I actually had to look up
what POX meant. And it turns out that
like POX, it's plain old XML like POJOs
but it's talking about XML. Now level 0
APIs are gonna use a
protocol as a transport protocol. So in
this case, we're just gonna be using
if we're using HTTP, it's just going to
be a single like a GET or a POST type
protocol. We're not gonna be using the
different HTTP methods for anything. And
it's also gonna use one URI or one
endpoint. And this is more like a
remote procedure call or the SOAP
interface. Or we also have a concept
called XML-RPC. We hardly ever see that
anymore. But going back a decade ago, we
did see that, where you posted an XML
document to an endpoint, a URL. And then,
based on the type and based on that XML
document, it invokes some type of server
remote procedure call. So that XML
document would represent what you wanna
do. The URI didn't change the protocol,
didn't change so it was one and one
there.
So that this is the level zero. Now level
one is to bring in actual resources.
You saw me doing this earlier in the
course. I did that's intentionally to
start showing you REST like
URL's being used. So in this case, we're
gonna use URIs to identify specific
resources. So you can see here, I got a
couple examples there. We have gonna
do a GET. I guess
example.com for product 1234,
which is gonna give us data or
information about product 1234.
Or if we do a GET against a URI for
product 567 or 5687,
my little typo there. And we're
gonna get information about that Product
ID. Again, this is just going to be using
one protocol. So it's still gonna be
using a single method of HTTP like
GET. Now the next level up is the level
2. It's where we start leveraging HTTP
verbs and these are gonna be used in
conjunction with URIs for desired
actions. So for example, we might do a get
of products 1234 to return
data about that product. What we could do
I put against that same URI with like an
XML body to update data for product
1234. Now if we wanted to
delete that product, we can do a DELETE
an HTTP DELETE action against that URI
of products/1234 to
cause a delete action. And this is
probably the most common level that
you're gonna see in use today. This
is widely accepted. I'm gonna continue to
show you how these work together but
that's probably the most common that you
can see. Now to get to true REST, we need
to get to level 3. The representation
now contains URIs, which may be
useful to consumers of your API. Now it's
gonna help your client developers
explore the resource and see different
actions that are available and they can
actually start doing so programmatically.
There's actually some pretty slick stuff
evolving. Right now, there's not a
standard. There's some generally accepted
standards but there's like no governing
body says this is how you provide
hypermedia and a REST resource. So Spring
does provide an implementation of HATEOS. I will get into in the future in this
course. But I want you may make you
where there are different
interpretations of this. So that the
standards still kind of evolving but
it's pretty slick when you get there. Now
to summarize, what we have here. Level 1
is gonna break a large service into
distinct URIs. So we're gonna get away
from a remote procedure call effectively
and then start providing URIs. Now
level 2 is probably where most of the
world is at, where there is RESTful APIs. And
we're gonna start using verbs, that HTTP
verbs, to implement different actions. Now
level 3 is where kind of where
things are going right now and it's
gonna provide discoverability. We're
gonna provide hypermedia
links inside our API. And that's gonna
make our API more self-documenting
and will be able to programmatically
work with that. So that we need an important
level. So it's important to remember how
these different technologies are working
together and providing a very easy and
intuitive API to leverage.